We've now looked in detail how to
make maximum entropy classifiers.
And what I want to do in this
segment is extend from there
to show how we can build sequence
models out of classifiers.
In particular, we are going to make
maximum entropy sequence models.
Many problems in NLP have data
which is a sequence of something.
It might be a sequence of characters,
a sequence of words, sequence of phrases,
sequence of lines, paragraphs, sentences.
And we can think of the task,
perhaps with a little coding,
as one of labeling each item.
So, a very straight forward example is
part of speech tagging that we just
looked at.
So here, we have the words and for
each word we're going to label it
with a particular part of speech.
Other examples are fairly
straightforward as well.
So, for named entity recognition,
here we have the word,
and we're going to label it with an entity
if it is one, like organization, or
if it's not an entity,
we're going to label it with an O.
Some other cases of things that
can be done as sequence problems,
it's a little bit subtle to
think about the encoding.
But, is actually quite straight forward
once you've worked through the ideas.
So, here we have a piece of Chinese text,
and
what we want to do is word segmentation.
So this is a word.
This is a second word.
This is a third word.
This is a fourth word.
This is a single character word,
and so on.
And what we can do is,
we can use a labeling to capture that.
So here we have what's called BI labeling,
where we distinguishing just two states,
begin, and inside.
And that's sufficient to represent
tasks like word segmentation.
So, this says,
this is the beginning of a new word.
But then, the next token says it's
also the beginning of a new word.
So we start a word here, but
then we've got these I class so
we continue, another I class, we continue,
so that's a three character word.
And then we go back to a B and we start
a new word, which is a two character word.
So, although, really we're segmenting
the characters into sub-sequences,
we can encode the decisions
we have to make by regarding
the problem as a sequence labeling task.
Here's one more slightly
different example.
So what we have here is a stretch of text,
and we can think of the text as
lines of a old fashioned file with
hard line breaks or sentences.
And so what this is, is an FAQ,
as you find commonly on websites.
And what we want to do is to
automatically process and
work out where are the questions and
where are the answers.
And so we're going to regard that
as a sequence labeling task,
where each of our items is
representing a line or a sentence.
And so then, we're encoding our decisions
using exactly the same kind of
two-class classification over here.
So, each line is being classified as
either a question line or an answer line.
And then, we have the answer lines
grouped together for a particular answer.
So what we're going to do with
our maximum entropy models is,
we're going to put them
into a sequence model.
And these are usually referred to as
Maximum Entropy Markov Models, MEMMs, or
Conditional Markov Models.
So, what the classifier does is it makes
a single decision at a time, but it's able
to be conditioned on evidence both from
observations and from previous decisions.
So here, we're showing a picture where in
the middle of doing part of speech taking,
and we've already given part of
speech tags the first three words.
And so we're proceeding left to right, and
then what we're up to is giving a part
of speech tag to this word here.
And so the idea is, for
features for classification,
we're going to be able to use
features of the current word,
features of other words, if we wish.
But, we're also are going to be allowed
to use features of the previously
assigned part of speech tag.
Perhaps the part of
speech tag to backwards.
And all of these can
influence the classification.
And so that's what's being shown
over here for our features.
So we have current word,
next word, previous word,
previous tag, previous two tags
taken jointly is a feature.
And then we can also define other features
of the kind that we've discussed before.
So here we have,
a hasDigit feature of the current word,
which is being used to generalize over
different numbers, because maybe we don't
know very much or anything about
the number, 22.6 in particular.
So generalizing a little, this is
the picture of how we move from our
basic maximum classifier
to a sequence model.
So overall,
we have Sequence Data here, and
what we want to do is classification
at the sequence level.
So, we have individual words or
characters and
we want to assign to them their classes.
But the way we're going to do that
is we're going to look at each
decision individually.
So, we're going to say, okay, there's
a particular classification of interest,
this one here.
And how are we going to
make that classification?
Well, what we're going to do is say,
for that particular classification,
there's data locally of interest to it.
So there's the current word,
the previous word, the previous class.
And so, what we're going to do,
is we're going to feature
extraction over that data.
And so, we have the label that
we're trying to predict, or
which we can see in
supervised training data.
We've got features of the observed
data in previous classifications.
And then, we're building
a Maximum Entropy Model over that.
And so, at that point, we're doing all
the stuff that we've talked about.
We're doing optimization of a model,
we're doing smoothing.
And, at the end of the day,
we build a little local classifier
that makes the individual decisions.
So, what we'll do, is we'll do it this
position, but then, we'll repeat the same
thing over at the next position, and
we'll go along taking our sequence.
It's extremely easy to see how to do
that in one way, where we first fold
aside this label, then we go on to decide
this label, and this label, this label,
and at each point we can use preceding
labels to help determine the next one.
And if we do that, we have a greedy
sequence modeler that's just deciding
one sequence at a time and moving on.
That, in many applications,
actually works quite well.
But commonly, people want to explore
the search space a little bit better.
Because sometimes, although here,
you might decide one part of speech tag
is best, then later on once you've looked
over here, that would give some reason for
you to think that maybe you should have
chosen differently back over here.
And so, there are a couple of methods
that are commonly used to do that.
One method is Beam Inference.
So a Beam Inference at each position,
rather than just deciding the most
likely label,
we can keep several possibilities.
So, we might keep the top
k complete sub-sequences
up to the point where we're at to so far.
And so then, at each stage we'll
consider each partial sub-sequence and
extend that to one further position.
Now, Beam Inference is also very fast and
easy to implement.
And it turns out that a lot of
the time that beam sizes of three or
five give you enough maintenance with
few possibilities, and works almost as
well as doing exact inference to find
the best possible state sequence.
And it's easy to implement.
Of course, that's not necessarily true,
you get no guarantees that you found the
globally best part of speech tag sequence,
or whatever your sequence problem is.
And it can certainly be the case that
possibilities that would later have been
shown to be good, might fall of the beam
before they get to be shown to be good.
We can do better than that.
We can actually find
the best sequence of states
that has the globally
highest score in the model.
And doing that is referred to in
NLP as doing Viterbi Inference,
since Andrew Viterbi invented
a lot of these algorithms finding
the best way of doing things.
Viterbi inference is a form
of dynamic programming, or
you can also think of it as memorization.
And you can do this kind
of dynamic programming,
providing you have a small
window of state influence.
So for example,
when you're trying to decide this label,
if it depends on words
however it wants to,
but only depends on, say, the previous
label and the one before that.
Then, you end up with this sort of fixed
small window of stuff you need to know
about to make decisions, and nothing back
here is affecting what decision you make.
Providing that's true,
you can write dynamic programming
algorithms to find
the optimal states sequence.
And so, that has the obvious advantage
that you're guaranteed to find
the best states sequence, but
it has some disadvantages.
It requires a bit more work to implement,
and it forces you to restrict your use of
previous labels in your inference
process to a fixed small window.
That is a restriction, but a lot of
the time it's not such a bad Restriction,
because in practice, it's hard to
get long distance interactions to be
working effectively anyway,
even in something like a bean model,
which does allow long
distance interactions.
Okay, I've introduced
Maximum Entropy Markov Models.
And I hope that you now feel
that you understand them and
will be able to build
them as an assignment.
Before I end, I should just very briefly
mention Conditional Random Fields.
So, Conditional Random Fields are another
probabilistic sequence model.
And if you just, sort of, look big picture
in the math of a Conditional Random Field,
boy, that equation looks exactly
like the equation that we've been
starring at in all of the recent slides.
The difference with Conditional Random
Fields is that these probabilities
are in terms of the entire sequences.
So, this is the sequence of classes and
the sequence of observed data values,
that it's not in terms of
particular points in that space.
And so, we get this whole
sequence conditional model
rather than the chaining of local models.
That looks as if it would be
very difficult to deal with,
because the space of a sequence of
c's is exponential in its length.
And the space of a sequence of data
items represented as features,
is at a minimum huge, and
perhaps, even infinite.
But it turns out that, providing the fi
features remain local, permitting dynamic
programming, that the conditional sequence
likelihood can be calculated exactly.
Training is somewhat slower, but CRFs
have theoretical advantages of avoiding
certain causal-competition biases that can
occur with Maximum Entropy Markov Models.
However, to explain the details
of these models, we'd have to go
quite a way afield, looking at in general,
how to do Markov random field inference.
Which is, I feel,
is a better topic for other courses.
So, let me just mention these, and
say that these days, using CRFs or
variants of them using a max margin
criterion coming out of SVMs,
are seen as the state-of-the-art
method for doing sequence models.
And there are various bits of software,
including the Stanford software for
named-entity recognition,
you can download that implements CRFs.
But a thing to know is, that while
CRFs are theoretically cleaner, and
can avoid some problems of MEMMs,
that in practice,
when you're building models with rich
features which condition on observed data,
both before and after you, that in
practice they tend to have performance
that can't really be disguised from
Maximum Entropy Markov Models.
And so, there's really no problem with
using Maximum Entropy Markov Models to do
the job of sequence classification, and
that's what we'll use in the assignment.
Okay, and so, I hope that you
guys now have a concrete idea
of how you can build
a MaxEnt Classifier and
then incorporate it into a system for
doing sequence inference.